When we create our ListContacts element here,
what we are parsing it are two different prompts.
Contacts which is an array and onDeleteContact which say function.
But what if instead of parsing contacts and array,
what if someone on our team or even us later down the road,
accidentally parsed an object?
Then what would happen is you're going to see over here is we would get an error
because props.contacts is no longer an array it would be an object,
which would mean it doesn't have a.map property.
So what we're going to do in this video,
is we are going to implement a library called Prop Types,
which will allow us to specify the specific
prompts that a component needs when the components or when the element is created.
So what we'll do, let's go over here and
change this back to our normal contexts and then head
over to our terminal and what we want to add to
our application is the package prop-types.
Once that's done, go ahead and restart
your application and now head over to our ListContacts component.
So as I mentioned earlier,
ListContacts is going to take in two different props,
contacts array and onDeleteContact,
which is a function.
So first what we want to do is let's import
the PropTypes package that we just barely installed,
and now what PropTypes will allow us to do is they will allow us to come down
here and add a property to our ListContacts component, we'll say PropTypes.
It's going to be set to an object and this object is going to represent all of
the different props that can be parsed to our ListContacts component.
So first, we are going to have contacts.
Contacts as I mentioned a few times now is going to be an array and what's even
nice about PropTypes is you can specify if
a specific prop is going to be required or not.
So we can come in here and say,
isRequired and then the other prop that we're going to
parse through this component is going to be onDeleteContact,
which is going to be a function which is abbreviated to
func and that is also going to be required as well.
So now what would happen is if instead of parsing in our contacts array,
what if we parsed it an object here.
And then now inside of our console,
we still get the original errors but what we also get is this lineup here,
failed prop type, Invalid prop contacts of
type objects supply to ListContacts expected array.
So what it's saying is, "Hey,
ListContacts needed the contacts prop to be an array but what you gave it was an object."
And let's say we forgot when we use ListContacts to
parse in our onDeleteContact function,
you'll notice what'll happen here is even though our app will still render because
the onDeleteContact function isn't going to be invoked until one of these X's is clicked,
we'll get an error in the console saying, "Hey,
it looks like our ListContacts component needed
onDeleteContact because it was required, but it's undefined.
You didn't parse it in when you created this element."
And probably my favorite thing about
Prop Types is related to third party components that you use.
So right now this ListContacts component is just our component that we created ourselves,
so it's pretty obvious to know what props that we're going to need,
but what if we used another component which is coming from say MPM?
Or what if this ListContacts component was
a third party library that we install ourselves?
Now, sometimes it might be hard to know which
specific prompts you should parse the component.
But if the author of that library added Prop Types,
all you need to do is look at the Prop Types definition in order to
know what specific props need to be parsed to the component that you're using